We're half an hour from the open in Hong
Kong, Shanzhan, and Shanghai. You're
watching the China Show. I'm Averil Hong
in Singapore
>> and I'm David Inglass here in Hong Kong.
Let's get to your top stories today.
Asian chipmakers in focus as President
Trump announces a 100% tariff on
semiconductors with some carveouts for
those investing in the United States.
will be putting a tariff on of
approximately 100% on chips and
semiconductors.
But if you're building in the United
States of America, there's no charge.
Now, traders are also weighing the
impacts of Trump doubling tariffs on
India over Russian energy imports with a
warning that China could also face
punishment. And momentum is building for
a US rate cut next month as three Fed
officials have voiced concerns over the
weakness in the labor market.
[Music]
Good morning. Welcome to the show. We're
looking at market action right now. And
you know what the story is? one where it
doesn't seem like there's a lot of news
out there. I guess in other words, right
now we're taking this one in stride.
Perhaps it could be down to the lack of
details as far as is it going to be
product category specific? Is it going
to be across all semiconductor products?
A lot of questions remain, but the
credible of course how credible the
threat is. We'll see what happens of
course over the next few hours or so. At
the moment though, as you can see,
equity markets are doing quite well.
Half of 1% to the upside Asia Pacific.
We'll get to the earning story because
it's a big theme as well as far as Japan
specifically goes today. Right. A quick
glance at some of the semi semiconductor
names. You have TSMC, you have Samsung,
SK Highix, Tokyo Electron on your
screens right now. And as you can see,
we're actually doing quite well to the
upside. It's worth pointing out TSMC
overnight did also catch a very strong
bid. Bit of catch up right now. Samsung
Electronics up two and a half%. Uh we're
looking at the Bloomberg dollar index.
Reason we have that in play, it's also
the Fed conversation. We have the Bank
of England, by the way, on deck today.
Bloomberg dollar index has fallen enough
and we're now again at critical support.
50-day moving average is where we are
right now as far as that is concerned.
Uh rate cuts largely expected out of the
Bank of England. Apart from other things
on deck today, uh you have a 30-year
bond auction, number one, and number two
is you also have some trade numbers
coming through out of China, which takes
us into the China part of the
conversation here. And we're looking at
A50 futures. As you can see here, we're
flat and Shanghai crude and focus given
of course all the
uh all the conversations around Brent
and Dollar China. Uh nothing watch
nothing much to not as far as that is
concerned. So it's turning out to be a
big nothing burger.
>> Yeah, we're still watching out. Maybe
this is also part of the taco trade,
right? and chips. Of course, given how
we were waiting out for what Trump would
do on these sectoral tariffs, now we
know he has 100% tariffs on
semiconductors in his sites, but there
are carveouts or exemptions. So, we know
how TSMC given how it's committed to US
uh fab investments, you know, that is
why we're seeing TSMC surging at the
start of trade. South Korean media have
reported that maybe the likes of SKH
High, Samsung, they won't be hit with
these tariffs either. And then the Apple
story, right? 100%
uh tariffs for chips. Maybe it won't be
part of this because of its hundred
billion dollar investment in the US.
This is seen as a sort of win for Tim
Cook and indeed Apple as well, David.
Yeah, it it was an announcement before
the meeting took place at the White
House and it certainly underscores, you
know, what what would constitute being
considered for an exemption, right? And
it's really a commitment uh as far as,
you know, capex in the US is concerned.
And we were looking at some statistics
earlier on here, Averil, uh 2.5 trillion
right now is that number that a lot of
corporates have committed to the US. So
we'll talk about that and of course
whether or not that does then qualify uh
certain things for for for for in terms
of the uh the exemptions there which
goes into the India story right because
India is actually a place where Apple
has actually started increasing its
capacity as well. uh so we'll see what
happens there because India is now part
of the conversation it's doubled the
tariffs and as far as the other uh
earnings uh the other theme is concerned
as far as markets go uh perhaps not as
consequential but it's it's it's taking
place consistently under the hood uh are
corporate earnings right I think you
have about 15% of the topics index
reporting today we did see of course in
the greater China space Cath Pacific was
a big news moment uh yesterday massive
drop in the stock and I think we have a
couple of big names reporting here in
Hong Kong but apart from that of course
April it's the tariff conversations,
100% tariff uh on on chips as you were
pointing out there.
>> Yeah, I think that's the the main bit of
information we've been getting. Right.
So, let's get more on President Trump's
latest tariff bombshell that 100% tax on
chips imported into the US but with
exemptions for commitments to produce
locally.
will be putting a tariff on of
approximately 100% on chips and
semiconductors.
But if you're building in the United
States of America, there's no charge.
Even though you're building uh and
you're not producing yet in terms of the
big numbers of jobs and all of the
things that you're building, uh if
you're building, there will be no
charge.
Bloomberg's digital politics editor Romy
Vagis and China correspondent Mimllo are
with us. So Romy, let's start with you.
How significant is it that Trump says
he's exempting companies that build in
the US from the new chips tariffs?
>> This is an incredibly significant carve
out. I mean, if we take Trump's words
and if Trump's words are put into a plan
and we're saying that companies that
have committed
promised to spend millions in the United
States on on factories, on production,
on plants, that they would be exempt
from these semiconductor tariffs. That
means that the largest players in the
industry won't be affected. So, we're
talking about TSMC, Samsung, Micron,
Texas Instruments. these major players
would not be affected by these tariffs
and that of course includes Apple. So
yes, this is a huge exemption from these
tariffs.
Okay, let's Romy David here. Let's fast
forward this film. How likely is it that
the iPhone will be completely assembled
in the US?
Well, you may remember that earlier in
the year Trump said that he told Tim
Cook, "I want the iPhone to be
completely manufactured in the United
States." Um, that seems fairly unlikely.
Even Tim Cook today when pressed said,
"Uh, it will be made elsewhere for a
while." Um, yes. So this is a
significant investment by Apple, 600
billion in total in the United States.
Some significant investments, but no, we
are not going to see made entirely in
the USA uh a sticker slapped like that
on the iPhone.
>> But Trump is satisfied,
>> Romy. It also all kind of makes you
wonder what this is going to mean for
Apple's manufacturing in India at a time
when he's doubling these tariffs uh on
the South Asian nation. What exactly is
Trump trying to achieve here?
>> Yeah. So, as of 12:01 a.m. New York
time, India will have this 25% tariff.
Um that's the country bycountry tariffs
that Trump had announced last week. Then
in 21 days if nothing changes there'll
be an additional 25%. And this is
specifically because Trump wants to
penalize India for buying energy from
Russia. Trump is getting increasingly
frustrated at the pace or the lack of
progress really um of a truce between
Russia and Ukraine and he wants to put
pressure on India to stop buying energy
from Russia. And you know we have seen
this before that that Trump uses tariffs
not for economic reasons but for
political reasons and for other goals.
So at the at the end of 21 days if
nothing changes we will see a 50% tariff
on Indian goods.
>> Yeah. And you know what China's now
tossed into the same bucket in the same
way India was upset that they got tossed
into the bucket of Russia. and Minman
I'll bring you in because now this is
really part of Donald Trump looping in
China with the same the possibility that
they he might increase tariffs on China
because of what their dependence if you
will their buying of Russian oil.
>> Yes. Again this is a big question mark
right because the two sides just
concluded their third round of trade
talks in Stockholm and there were quite
positive signals from both sides. Trump
even saying that he's close to a trade
deal with China. But now after imposing
this 25% additional tariff on India,
he's saying the same thing could happen
for China. And China of course is the
biggest buyer of Russian crude. If China
were to stop buying Russian crude, it's
going to be very very disruptive and
costly for the Chinese economy because
about a fifth of their crude oil is
coming from Russia. And this is
something that China will likely push
back hard against because China already
got some warning from this in a third
round of trade talk. Scott Besson
mentioned this in Stockholm. China had
said they they are going to protect
their energy sovereignty. The Chinese
foreign ministry in a press briefing in
July had said they would be opposed to
such a long armed jurisdiction and
illicit secondary tariffs. And Global
Times, the Chinese state linked media
has also said any targeting of China
because of the buying of Russian oil
could potentially undermine the trade
talk mechanism. So it's going to be
pretty serious. If he does impose these
tariffs, we could see, you know, the
progress that we have made so far really
being derailed and perhaps things
tension escalating once again between US
and China.
>> And Mim, amid all this this morning,
we're going to be getting a snapshot of
Chinese trade.
That's right. We are expecting the trade
data out today and economists are
expecting exports to still hold up quite
well at 5.6% 6% versus the previous
month's 5.9%. Now we have already been
getting the high high frequency data
weekly and that shows that shipments to
the US had started to fall after a brief
rebound in June. That's after the London
talks that brief tariff pause there. So
that tells us that the front-loading
momentum has already starting started to
fade already. There's so much of
frontloading taking place in the first
half of the year. So Bloomberg economics
believe that in the second half of the
year even with a trade truce extension
they believe that exports to the US will
continue to decline but overall trade
with the world that's still holding up
pretty well. It shows that Chinese
exporters had been able to find
alternative markets outside the US.
Perhaps there is still some trans
shshipments that are going on to uh
skirt around those tariffs. And the key
risk going forward is whether or not
other countries start to crack down on
these trans shshipments as part of their
trade deal with the US. But there had
been some analysts uh like Dan Wang from
Eurasia Group who said that that risk is
not high especially among Southeast
Asian countries that may not have the
willingness and the incentive and the
capacity to actually crack down on that.
Uh we have the import data as well
coming out today. Expectations is a
decline of 1% really continuing to show
that weakness in domestic demand there.
Minman, thank you so much. Our team
there, Minman Lo and Romy Fergiz there,
of course, to talk us through the
complications, well, the latest and the
potential complications there on the
tariff front there. By the way, just one
more ahead here on the chip tariff
conversation here. So, coming up here on
the China show, uh, Reva Gujon will be
joining us to talk us through the
potential impact on the industry as
well. What we know, what we don't know,
what's actionable, and what for now
remains speculation. So, they'll be
joining us in a couple of minutes as
well, 17 minutes away. And also counting
down to the open of trade and around the
open today, Hiong International Wang
Chanzu will be joining us and on the
point Minman was just making, you can't
frontload forever. They actually think a
growth surprise is in story in China
towards the end of this year. The
opening bell 17 minutes away here in
Hong Kong, up in Shanghai, and in
between in Shenzhen. This is the China
show. Good morning.
[Music]
You're watching the China show. A couple
of things that we're watching out for
today. After the Shanghai com rallied, I
think to the highest close since 2021.
We also have the continued fallout from
earnings, right, Kathy? Those passenger
yields really raised eyebrows. 10%
decline yesterday. Xiaomi getting
downgraded uh by Nura and then falling
highore keeping an eye on trade data as
well and some of the points that our
correspondents have been making. You
can't frontload forever. Earnings
announcements as well. Uh a number of
them including SU Pacific and then of
course this all also brings us to that
tariff conversation particularly when it
comes to chip uh and Apple suppliers.
David.
Yeah, lot to watch out for that. In
fact, the uh our folks at
uh Bloomberg economics have really put
this out, right? So obviously I think
for one what was in terms of the
sequence of events the the announcement
from Apple on the commitment 100 billion
came before uh that meeting at the White
House. So certainly it was in their and
how they've framed it um uh was a clear
move to secure political goodwill and
add resiliency to Apple supply chain.
Now as far as the what the meat on the
bones is as far as this this this this
call was concerned 100 billion does not
include by the way the half a trillion
which is separate establishing a US
silicon supply chain with partners and
as you can see I'm not going to go
through all the names on your screens
right now how do we make sense of this
strategically in terms of how supply
chains are going to get rejigged we know
enough about 100% tariffs when where and
what product categories is it a blanket
across all products with semiconductors
in
Uh let's try and sort signal from noise.
And joining us now is Reva Gujon uh
director at independent research firm
Rodium Group. Uh Reva, good morning from
the Asia Pacific. Thank you so much for
joining us. We're all yours. Initial
take uh based on what we've heard so far
the last few hours or so.
>> Uh well the to the question you were
just asking David on on what is actually
covered here. If we go back at least to
the April investigation announcement,
the scope is very ambitious. Um, so it's
supposed to cover chip making equipment,
chip fabrication, even the actual
electronic device that contains the
chip. So the the point here is that
Trump isn't just satisfied with bringing
semiconductor manufacturing to the US,
right? He wants to pull the entire
electronics ecosystem away from Asia to
the US. Now, lots of details, right,
that we need to test here on what is
there's the tariff announcement, right,
that is is designed to drive these big
onshore investments like Apple just
made, but what's the design and the
implementation of the tariff regime is
critical. So, how would you design a
component tariff to cover devices
containing chips not made in the US? And
critically, what's the phase in
timelines? Right? This isn't this
manufacturing isn't going to happen
overnight. there's going to be consumer
impacts here that have political impacts
as well and even in the most optimistic
onshoring scenarios. Um, for example,
with TSMC, uh, if they are are are
fabbing chips for Nvidia, Blackwell GPUs
in Arizona, those chips are still going
back to Taiwan for advanced packaging.
Um, so still a lot here on phasin.
Okay. So, Rea, let's let's play the
let's let's let's let's let's
fast forward that mental exercise,
right? So, if if for example, if you
were to advise the White House, then how
you design policy to to make the threat
credible? In other words, what what
realistically can the US produce among
the supply chain? How would you how
would you design that policy in to
incentivize capex back into the US and
and what in what categories?
>> Yeah. So critically, it's the exemption
tied to the investment project itself,
right? It's not enough for this
administration just to make the mega
investment deal, right? Um so you need
to ensure that these projects actually
break ground. So you create an incentive
by tying tariff breaks to investment
projects. Um this is administration is
not a fan of grants like the the chips
act funding for example. Maybe they'll
be more open to tax credits as a further
incentive, but that's still maybe down
the line. Um so when we look at what
tariff breaks you get right that are
tied to investment projects um this
really matters right because for all
these leading edge fab uh projects for
AI data centers there are a lot of
things that go into these projects right
everything from the middle the metals
the chips the chipm equipment um and
we're already seeing some signs of
pragmatism here take semiconductor
manufacturing equipment as one example
um this is where if you look at the US
EU new bilateral trade deal framework
that was recently announced in the zero
for zero tariff category. Semiconductor
manufacturing equipment got in there.
Right? So there is a reality check that
seems to be dawning on the Trump
administration of look, if Trump cares
about his AI legacy, his political
legacy, then he's going to need to get
creative in how he actually implements
and applies this tariff regime while
still bu putting out that big tariff
announcement to drive these big
investment project pledges.
Reva, pulling the supply chain away from
Asia, investments into the US, this is
all going to take time. It's also going
to add cost. How does this affect US
tech competitiveness, particularly in
relation to AI?
>> Well, exactly right. Uh the US doesn't
want to short circuit all these big AI
infrastructure buildouts. So, it's going
to need to to create tariff breaks,
right? these types of exemptions, it's
going to need to get creative in how it
implements it. That's where we'll see
the details. And this may not come all
in one go, right? If we take the auto
tariffs as an example that has had
multiple adjustments, right, to destack
tariffs down the line, this could be
just as messy. We'll have to see. Um,
but I do think the president cares about
having these buildouts happen under his
watch. Um so so we will see carveouts
probably and that's where probably the
retroactive tariff threat comes into
play to say look even if you're getting
an exemption today you you won't um a
few years from now if we don't see these
projects actually happen. Um but still
you know cost advantages is an important
factor here and as it was noted earlier
you're not going to be able to bring the
entire electronic supply chain to the US
overnight. Um there's that's obviously
going to um blow commercial reason out
of the water. Um but there is still a
broader incentive to pull more
semiconductor and electronics
manufacturing away from Taiwan in
particular. And so when we look at that
plus very high tariffs that are are
being imposed on Southeast Asia as well,
that is likely to have some pull effect.
Um but we really need to watch the US
Taiwan bilateral closely now.
>> Yeah. And as you were speaking, we got
this hot uh crossing the terminal how
Taiwan saying TSMC is exempted from the
100% US ship tariffs. How do you see US
Taiwan bilateral relations progressing
from here on out?
>> Well, the Trump administration is is
attempting several objectives here,
right? Um it's getting big investments
out of TSMC in particular for leading
edge fabrication. Um, at the same time,
uh, it is also trying to, um, get more
out of TSMC. So, we still need to see
what how how far those pressure tactics
go. Um, it's also trying to bring, um,
more investment from companies like
Foxcon. It's also trying to bring legacy
chip capacity to the US as well, right?
Um, so there's there's more to come out
of the US Taiwan trade negotiation, the
trade pressure that the US can apply
there, also security leverage that the
US tries to to use with with Taiwan. Um,
but overlaying this picture, um, we have
the US also grappling with, okay, how to
get more investment out of TSMC for
leading edge fabrication, but it still
has an imperative to get an American
chip champion uh, to lead. And right now
Intel, which is supposed to take that
mantle, is floundering. Um, so there's
more to come, I think, on the the TSMC
story and the Intel story as well here
as the US tries to ensure that there's
an American ship champion as it's
drawing more of those assets out of
Taiwan. Um, but then we need to look at
what's ahead out of um the Trump Summit.
How transactional will Trump get with
Beijing as Beijing tries to impose U
restraint on the US for defense support
for Taiwan? Um, but this is this is the
ultimate test, right, for Trump
transactional transactionalism. Can he
can he squeeze more investment out of
Taiwan? Um, but can he at the same time
probe for a grand bargain with China?
That's a very tricky balancing act. Um,
but I think he's going to get further
with Taiwan on this front.
>> Reva, pay, you know, pay close attention
to your email because we might ask you
to come on again fairly last minute.
This is a developing story. Thank you so
much for taking the time. is my point
director at the roodium group joining us
there on the chip conversation here. We
just got the fix of the day coming out.
It should be coming up bottom of your
screen. 71345
against the US dollar which should be
that should be the strongest going back
to last year. We'll get more details on
that. Plenty more ahead. This is the
China show.
[Music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show and we're counting down to the open
of markets. All things considered, we've
actually been seeing Chinese stocks
fairing pretty well on a 3-day winning
streak. But of course, these
geopolitical developments. You got to
wonder whether this cast a pal on trade
today. And we haven't even gotten into
the conversation about the Federal
Reserve. We had at least three officials
sounding increasingly concerned about
the US labor market and you know that's
informing bets of a doubbish pivot from
the US central bank. For now we are
seeing the hongen in the early goings.
Uh looks like it could be quite a bright
start. Maybe that is going to help
offset some of these tariff concerns.
Let's take a look at how mainland stocks
are fairing. Extension of the gains
potentially. We'll see if this holds to
the end of the session. A couple of
sectors we're watching including coal
related stocks. I think Morgan Stanley
put out a note that uh they see coal
prices stabilizing. Aside from that,
take a look at how Hong Singh is fairing
especially the tech names right because
of what we're seeing across Asia at the
moment including the likes of TSMC, SKH,
Samsung Electronics. It looks like a bit
of a bounce on some of these Chinese
consumer tech names. And of course,
keeping tabs on Kathy as well, which
yesterday showed a sharp decline
following its earnings. Passenger yields
raise a lot of concerns because it was a
sharper than expected slump. Uh but not
too bad overall on the benchmarks,
right? We're seeing that green still
seeping through. Taking a look at Apple
suppliers as well on the mainland and it
is a bright start. We're seeing it green
across the board. This uh pledge for
hundred billion dollar investment into
the US would mean Apple is exempt from
these 100% uh chip tariffs. So helpful
potentially for Apple suppliers. Xiaomi
as well. That's the other one that we're
watching. Uh let's see how it is fairing
in trade today. This is following Namura
cutting it uh from buy to neutral. This
is of course a stock that I think has
tripled in the past year and we have
earnings coming out about two weeks from
now down about 2.3%.
Uh but David, you were unpacking some of
that earnings for us as well.
>> Yeah, you know what and you know let me
let me use the the Xiaomi story as a
jump off point because it certainly when
you look at the the changes that have
come I'll get to Cathy Pacific in a
moment here. Right. So in Xiaomi's case,
it's it does seem that the more call was
more a function of how how much a stock
has gone up relative to us going into an
earnings season, right? And that does
seem to be what's consistent with the
Cathy Pacific story, right? So it came
out with earnings midday. Uh one of the
biggest drops on record, right? 9% in
fact, as we still speak, it's still down
in the early minutes right now of of of
the Thursday session. So that's number
one. Uh and we're getting some
downgrades there. We'll unpack that in a
in a moment. And what the new price
targets are at the bottom of the screen
that's consensus rating, right? So, not
a lot of analysts actually cover Cathy
Pacific. Rackling my head now. I think
about less than 10. I think it's about
six or seven. Uh now, what this does is
it takes a score buy, hold, and sell. It
amalgamates that five is the most
bullish, one is the most bearish. We're
now at three after those three
downgrades, which effectively means the
consensus rating on the stock is now the
worst or lowest since the pandemic when
of course Cathy Pacific ran into all
those challenges given the logistics
issues right now. So, um, as promised,
let's have a look at some of the calls
here coming through HSBC, DAW, and JP
Morgan coming up on your screens and the
new price targets there. 8.90, 915, 820.
And we just showed you we were able
trading just above 10. stock to watch,
of course, from yesterday. Still is a
story that will continue to track today,
April.
>> Yep. And checking on Xiaomi, we're going
to track that as well. Um, as you
alluded to, you know, maybe this is also
a part of how these stocks have just run
up so far uh so far. So, let's bring in
Wang Shungchu, chief economist and
acting head of research at High Tone
International for a bit of analysis on
the macro backdrop as well. Uh Shanu,
great to have you with us. I mean we are
still assessing earnings. Uh but I think
the big one to watch today aside from
these geopolitical developments would be
the China trade data. I mean what are
you you know kind of pulling into the
equation as part of your analysis in so
far?
>> Yeah. Okay. for China's exports in July
is expected to continue to rise uh
despite the concerns over tariff and
also trade wars. Actually, if you look
at the first half of uh years, China's
exports and imports data, the imports
declined slightly. I mean, the growth
rate is lower than before, but also
exports again expanded for the first
half of this year. basically the export
to the US uh the the softer growth was
largely offset or even more than offset
by uh export to other countries like
IMIA or the belt and road countries. So
in July again we expect um you know a
modest expansion uh of the exports and
we also expect some weakness still in
the imports.
Uh what about what has sort of helped to
support Chinese markets of late the
anti-involution
rally? Uh what sort of commitments have
you been seeing from Chinese authorities
so far? Uh does that you know lift
confidence enough?
>> Yeah. Um okay. uh from two point of
view. One on the market side, I think
both China Asia and also Hong Kong
markets are playing a catching up
against the development world uh
equities, you know, that have been
lagging in the last three years. So this
year there's a revival of sentiment also
with a lower funding cost offshore uh
which pushed the um the sentiment also
the market activities so far. But on the
macro side, you know, for the first half
of year, China was growing around 5.2%
year on year and it's u above
expectations and many economists also
the market expect softening uh towards
the year end.
The July IMF uh world economic outlook
forecast uh revising up China's annual
growth to 4.8% but still below 5%. which
which means there's a softening um
towards the end of this year. But I want
to make a point that the market may have
missed
is that this is the final year of
China's the 14th five-year plan and
actually by the end of this year there
are many quantitative targets the KPIs
need to be met. Let me name a few. For
example, the total length of um
highspeed railway,
number of airports, the number of new
constructed ports, etc. Also
urbanization rate, forest coverage ratio
and also um you know the energy
consumption per unit of GDP etc. So
for this year towards the the last six
months of of this year I think the the
Chinese government still going to put a
lot of efforts to meeting this
quantitative targets on the social and
the economic development side. So this
is a binding one. So that's why um I see
some potential upside even uh in the
last two quarters of the the the year
for the for the government to put more
stimulus basically to meet the target. H
I'd like for you to talk a little bit
more about that because that really
hasn't come up a lot as you point out
the market might be missing that. So I
think my my I have two questions on
that. One is
what likely will be the boost to growth.
So if we could quantify that further you
know the the targets because of the uh
we're going into the end of the 14 year
5year plan. The second question I have
is that seems to be correct me if I'm
wrong more on the government fiscal
side. Uh how is China going to afford
that? Is there fiscal space to be able
to push those projects through and just
trying does the economy need those
projects is the other question
>> right um so maybe starting with the
fiscal question
>> yes
>> um by end of June if you look at China's
fiscal balance I think the in terms of u
um revenue growth and also the fiscal
spendings roughly half of the fiscal
space has been spent so it's on track
China has raised official fiscal deficit
to 4% of GDP. That's roughly 5.5 to 6
trillion fiscal deficit year to date by
end of June they spend around 2.5
trillion. So it's around half of uh
space left towards the end of the year.
So in terms of fiscal expansion if if
they want to do more uh basically to
boost consumption or like they said to
extend uh child care um they can do that
and also they will probably do more on
the real estate side which I see that is
still the largest drag factor for the
Chinese economy in terms of new housing
stars um transactions etc. they can do
more tax relief or certain tax exemption
on these sectors and also they as they
always said the government tried to
boost consumption by increasing for
example social security safety net to um
to boost the the confidence for
consumption
>> so they can afford so let's let's talk
about the consumption side then can they
afford to do everything
>> no they have to be highly selective well
again it's differ by regions and the
cities
in terms of social economic development
in some cities for example they give
coupons and in other cities uh they try
to boost the the minimum wage or try to
increase the social safety net so there
are again they differ by cities it's
very similar to the uh housing market
policy right yeah each city has
different policy I think they're likely
to do that against to boost in
consumption
>> the
let's talk about the housing market. So
you have three components, right? One is
some of the fiscal push on airports and
as you point out, the other are
subsidies, child child care for example,
the housing market to your point seems
to be uh losing acceler losing momentum
over the last few months or so. And my
question is the notion that if they fix
the housing market in some in a large
way, they also address the consump the
consumer confidence issue. Uh do those
two things come hand in hand? In other
words,
>> yes and no. Um, I believe the
governments changed their mindset um to
to downplay the the real estate sector
as a real as an important growth engine.
>> Interesting. Okay.
>> The the business model or the economic
development model differs
um because China facing a structural
many structural issues. the main is uh
the main one is population agent and
basically decreasing housing demand
right
>> so that's the long-term play it's not
cyclical right on the other hand if
China can still grow 5%
in the first half of this year without
the support of the housing market
>> or even the drag by the housing market I
think they believe they can do better
even without a huge stimulus to the
housing or the property market
stabilization.
>> Okay. Now, I want to ask about the the
market implication of the current state
of the economy. Like the it the economy
doesn't seem to be doing well enough to
lift corporate earnings outlook. It
doesn't seem to be doing bad enough that
it merits a lot more stimulus.
It it seems to be in a gray area for the
market which is wanting either corporate
earnings to come through or more
stimulus. What's the out what does this
mean then for the market outlook over
the next let's call it two halves? Yeah,
I think for the next 12 months say uh
chi as I mentioned China is the at the
conjuncture of ending uh the existing
five-year plan. Yes. And also the
starting of new one. Right.
>> So they're going to have a very detailed
report submitted to MPC in next March
>> highlighting the total achievements in
this fiveyear period and also outlining
the road map for the next five year. So
that's why the next 12 months could be
very crucial um because
based on many economist estimates to
achieve the long-term goal for example
2035 to double the GDP or GDP per capita
against 2020 level China need to grow
around four to 5%. On average and the
China is making up or catching making up
some loss during for example the year of
>> right
>> uh because of the co M
>> I think they estimate if they maintain a
a average growth of four to 5% per year
they can move towards making progress
towards that goal.
>> So um that implies that the the
corporate earnings may not be too much
upside. Uh that's why we keep a barbear
approach. We um for example we
overweight uh the tech and the consuming
consumer sectors. uh instead instead of
manufacturing and other traditional
sectors.
>> Shu just wondering as well I mean we've
been seeing these uh tariff and
geopolitical developments between the US
and China. How are you perhaps assessing
how this is a different episode from the
first trade war and how Chinese
authorities are viewing all this?
>> Right. Um I think for the US
administration
their policy agenda can be described in
one sentence
which is high tariff, low domestic uh
tax and a weak dollar. And to me even
not with China this can imply some new
the so-called impossible trinities
higher tariff going to push uh higher US
domestic inflation which make the fed
more difficult to cut and also lower
domestic tax will increase the US trade
uh the US fiscal deficit.
uh with the one big beautiful bill the
CBO estimates going to add to additional
3.4 trillion US dollar deficit by 2034.
So it's like the current policy setup as
the trade negotiation with China
continue to be dismissed by the market.
I think the market implications is more
important and peop the market may not
take this sanctions or uh you know the
tariff settings more permanent they can
be easily negotiated or even reversed as
long as other countries promise to make
more investment in the US etc. So people
are more like to watch how it's played
and also how it's ways on the US
domestic economy to make the
administration either change the mind or
the fed to do more aggressive more
accommodative um monetary easings.
>> What about I mean you talk about the US
economy. What are you seeing now in
terms of the cracks that are starting to
show? what sort of assumptions are you
making about how doubbish the central
bank is going to be?
>> Right. Um look at inflation side. I
think the inflation is trending down
around 2.5 to between 2.5 to 3%. And
also the recent labor market data
regardless the the the revision whatever
why they revise it they um they showed
some weakness in the labor market. the
labor market is cooling down. If the Fed
already did a 50% cut last September uh
for for example for precautionary
reasons, I can see um they are more
likely to do so in this September uh to
do another cut to 25 to 50 basis point
basically according to the changing
economic fundamentals.
>> Wong Shanzu, thank you so much for the
time. We can do this again. Lots more to
unpack there. Chief economist and acting
head of research at Haong International.
Lots of breaking news right now. Excuse
me. Um get me some water, please. Um so
a couple of things, right? So Taiwan on
the conversations around if and when. I
think it's more if u we get these
tariffs broadened out. Uh Taiwan is
considering to expand the special budget
on chips if that is the conversation to
be had. Number two is earlier on and as
you can see the market's running with it
already 5% gains on TSMC record high. I
think this is the biggest gain in going
back to May of this year. Um it does
seem that TSMC well Taiwan has said
actually that TSMC is exempted from the
100% US chip stars. Okay, we will take a
break. I'll get some water and then we
will regroup and figure out what we do
with all this information that's coming
through right now. Markets are rallying
this Thursday. This is the China show.
[Music]
to some corporate headlines this
morning. Bloomberg has learned that the
Netflix style streaming platform it is
seeking to raise $300 million in a Hong
Kong market debut this year. Sources say
negotiations around the listing are
fluid and the BU owned company may still
reconsider. If a second listing goes
ahead, it will join a wave of offers
that's fueled Hong Kong's revival this
year. Meanwhile, Walt Disney shares fell
after an earnings beat was overshadowed
by a cautious fullear profit forecast.
It now sees earnings increasing 18% in
fiscal 2025. A slightly higher forecast,
but short of Wall Street hopes. CEO Bob
Iger says Disney will no longer report
streaming subscriber numbers, calling
them less meaningful. Disney also
unveiled a $30 standalone ESPN app and a
new bundle with Hulu.
Singapore's biggest bank, DBS, reported
second quarter profit that beat
expectations, boyed by a jump in income
from trading and wealth fees. CEO Tan
Suan says nimble balance sheet moves
helped offset external pressure.
Meanwhile, rival OB reported lower
second quarter profit that fell short of
analyst estimates as lending income
declined. Net profit dropped 6%.
Uh we have plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Right. 444. Um, as you can see, uh,
let's call it 4 and a half%. TSMC to the
upside. Big move up overnight. Big move
right now. Shares at a record high here.
Uh, when you look at the news flow so
far, fairly encouraging and conducive
really for more gains. So, number one is
exemptions. Taiwan has said that TSMC is
exempted to these chip tariffs that will
be affecting some firms and of course we
understand given the news flow overnight
uh out of the US it is 100% tariffs on
chips. Now it's still unclear and we're
still getting more information that is
who is exempted what product categories
are exempted. Uh there's a separate but
related point on the South Korean side
of the conversation, but in any case,
TSMC is lifting the tide across Asian
semis right now, 5% there. And as you
can see, Taiwan is also getting quite
substantially. One other stock that
we're tracking still today is Cathy
Pacific extending the 9 10% drop that we
had on Wednesday. We're still down about
3%. uh brokerages have all come out at
least in the last let's call it since
the earnings came out at least three I'm
counting at least three have come out
and downgraded the stock uh it to
varying degrees right and we're looking
at price targets now of 8 to nine bucks
roughly speaking as look at the range is
concerned speaking of downgrades Namora
became I think the latest when I say
latest the one of the rare ones in the
last few months that's come out and
downgraded their outlook on the stock
itself. If memory serves me correctly, I
think it was Morning Star back in May
that did a similar move, but back to the
here now. Xiaomi cutting this one to
neutral uh 3 and a half% that's ahead of
earnings coming through and the stock of
course has done exceptionally well and
it might be a function of that as well.
Still overwhelming buy recommendations
though here Averil on shares of Xiaomi.
Yeah, given how it's I think tripled in
the past year and it's been doing pretty
well, right? Especially given its uh EV
endeavors, but we are also counting down
to July trade data out of China. Exports
expected to hold up. 5.6% is the
consensus despite weakness potentially
to the US. But you got to wonder how
much longer, given the front loading
effect, can this carry on? Coming up in
the next hour, we'll look at the impact
of the trade turmoil as well on FX
markets with UBP.
[Music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
show. Here's a look at Hong Singh. Half
hour into the session. We are seeing it
slightly positive. Uh moving off session
highs and it is kind of being supported
by the mood in the rest of the region
particularly when it comes to tech right
we're seeing the region's benchmark
higher by 8/10en of a percent and if you
take a look at the broader gauges you
know this is really being supported by
the chipm related stocks. Hing tech
though is being dragged by Xiaomi today
and I think we can show you what we're
seeing in the rest of these chip related
names right Han high uh Taiwan stock
higher we're also seeing TSMC record
highs all this in relation to these uh
tariff exemptions that TSMC or Taiwan is
going to be getting uh from Trump
imposing potentially these 100% chip
tariffs uh and we also seeing some of
these carve outs for the likes of uh
South Korea reportedly. Also worth
noting some of the Apple suppliers are
on the move after it committed to the
hundred billion dollar investments. So
bringing production back to the US and
that's going to help it to avert some of
these uh tariffs and one country that
hasn't quite been able to do that. If
you take a look at the India stock
futures, look at how uh we are fairing.
Yesterday was uh tepid kind of showing
when it came to Indian stocks because it
wasn't just about the tariff story.
There was also the RBI's a hawkish hole
maybe is choosing to after a 100 basis
point cut so far this year let the cuts
work their way through the system policy
transmission right so uh stocks were on
the back foot futures now though in
India seem to be pointing to some upside
David
>> yeah and we'll see whether or not the
cash market reflects that all
indications though suggest that markets
will and are uh taking this one in
stride in fact you know when you Look at
the how the the message that the markets
are taking from the tariff conversation
is how big those exemptions and holes
are really and to the point that I think
April was just making there this massive
move up in Taiwan. Uh other things on
deck today um you have a Bank of England
decision which we'll get to later on.
There's a 30-year bond auction in Japan.
That's number two. And at some point
over the next at some point from this
point on in fact we will be getting the
trade numbers coming through um out out
of mainland China. will see what those
look like within the hood. Front loing
of course and you know can you frontload
forever um is really one of the big
points of conversation there. So while
we wait for that of course let's let's
talk about the other things taking place
across these markets. So uh so Averil
you you've talked about India give us
more context there.
>> Yeah I mean this has been quite an
interesting turn of events for the Asian
economy. It was at the start of this
whole trade ruction sort of front of the
queue and then in February we saw Modi
at the White House um it was supposed to
get some of these lower rates all things
considered right but then we saw in the
past week getting hit by 25% Trump now
doubling it because of its Russian oil
uh imports so you know you've got to
assess as well the price of Russian oil
uh on geopolitical developments at the
moment
Yeah, absolutely. And I think one thing
that we really haven't touched on but is
equally important. That's really the
reason why India's now being part of the
conversation and China as well. And
Minman will talk more about that in a
moment is, you know, the lack of
progress the White House is getting with
Russia, right? And they're using, if you
could call India now and maybe even
China a proxy on that specific part of
the conversation that we're not getting
progress. Trump is then using this lever
to maybe get something um out of what
what what he calls uh these purchases of
of Russian oil as funding uh the war
effort right so it's it's it's I guess
in many many ways at some point things
are related here as well uh I haven't
mentioned as well earnings is a big
theme today we'll see what happens there
so you have Sony uh and the world's
biggest car maker I believe still based
on the last quarter uh Toyota is
reporting today so about 15% of the
topics index we'll get to that in a
moment But yes, let's get back to this.
100%
taxes or tariff on chips imported into
the US, but with some exemptions for
commitments to produce locally. Have a
look.
We'll be putting a tariff on of
approximately 100% on chips and
semiconductors.
But if you're building in the United
States of America, there's no charge.
even though you're building uh and
you're not producing yet in terms of the
big numbers of jobs and all of the
things that you're building uh if you're
building there will be no charge.
Let's bring in our team. Jill Dus, our
news desk editor with us here on set and
as you can see as well, Minlo, our
chronic correspondent. Jill, let let's
start with you. Okay. So, what do we
know? Who's so 100% tariffs? When when
does it take effect? Who's exempted?
What are the loopholes? Yeah.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean the gaps once again,
David, as with Trump, um it's a lot of
it kind of comes down to trying to make
sense of some of these comments. I mean,
what he's saying there, what he just
said there about building um you know,
sort of production, domestic production
in the United States. Um, I mean, if
we're taking that at his word, that
actually covers quite a lot of the
biggest chip makers. I mean, think
about, um, so I mean, you know, when it
when it comes to chipmakers, there's,
you know, obviously there's there's
companies like, um, you know, Intel and
AMD and such that design chips. Um, you
know, a lot of these companies are often
outsourcing the actual like fabrication
or the creation of the chip. Um, but I
mean, when you're bringing in companies
like TSMC, for example, right? So,
Taiwanese, um, you know, world's largest
chipmaker. Um, I mean, they've been for
the last five years building this um,
you know, giant plants in Arizona. And,
um, I mean, if you're taking Trump at
his word about this idea of, well, if
you're building plants in the United
States or if you're creating room for
domestic production in the United
States, then um, you're exempt from
these tariffs. I mean, conceivably TSMC
or, you know, other chipmakers that
ultimately, you know, would make use of
TSMC facilities and stuff would be
exempt from these types of tariffs. I do
think there's a lot of questions about
how much production you can actually
have in the United States um when you're
taking into account like overall global
demand and like whether the United
States actually has the capacity to do
all of that, you know, doesn't. But um I
think that kind of introduces this this
question of okay, well then it kind of
sounds like um there's exemptions for a
lot of these major chipmakers, right?
And then you've got Apple uh you know,
which you know, Tim Cook appearing at
the White House uh you know, kind of
talking about their investment plans. It
looks like they're increasing a a
pre-existing $500 billion uh investment
plan by another hundred billion dollars,
talking about bringing domestic
production back. I mean, sounds to me
like what Trump really wants is he wants
these big flashy commitments where he
gets to appear at the White House with
um you know, all of these major
executives um make some of these
commitments and promises and then it
does seem like you're able to kind of
skate out of um you know uh some of
these tariffs um at least in the
interim. I don't know. Again, like I
think we have to see a lot of this kind
of down on paper, but I think that's why
you're seeing some of that good news
there.
Yeah, Min, let's bring you in. I mean,
to Jill's point, it's difficult to
separate noise and signal rhetoric from
actual action with Trump. Um, you know,
he had been softening his tone towards
China. Now, we're hearing we could see
tariffs on them for buying Russian oil,
secondary sanctions as well.
Yes, Trump has definitely been dragging
his feet on announcing that potential
extension of the trade truce despite,
you know, signals that that's going to
happen soon. But we're days away from
August 12th and it looks like there are
still a couple of things that could
potentially derail that. One of it is,
as he said, potentially imposing new
secondary sanctions or tariffs on China
for purchasing Russian oil. The 25% that
have been placed on India could be a
model for China as well. And this is
something that will likely be um very
bad for trade relations given that this
is um you know Russia is China's largest
source of crude oil about a fifth of its
crude oil come from r comes from Russia
and we know that China has previously
said it's going to oppose this that it's
going to protect its energy sovereignty
that it opposes this sort of long armed
jurisdiction and global times the
Chinese state link media even saying
that this could undermine the trade talk
mechanism. So there is this uh sort of
oil tariff going on and then there's
another piece which is related to chips
right the US recently charging a couple
of Chinese nationals for selling Nvidia
chips to China illegally and at the same
time China expressing these concerns
around security vulnerabilities of using
Nvidia chips. So it's possible that
China may not see the recent reversal of
chip cuts as an act of goodwill from the
US side. So a few things that could
potentially undo all the progress that
we have seen so far.
>> Mim we are expecting these Chinese trade
numbers as well. How much weight is
economist are economists putting on the
data given how you know if we get that
trade truce extension that could also
significantly change the picture.
Yes, we have already seen a lot of
front-loading in the fast first half of
the year. And so, Bloomberg economics
believe even with the trade truths being
extended, we are likely to continue
seeing this downtrend in exports of
shipments from China to the United
States. Currently, we're already seeing
the weekly data, the high frequency data
showing that shipments have been
dropping since June, but overall
shipments to the rest of the world
actually holding up pretty well. In
fact, offsetting some of that decline in
trade with the US. So, Chinese exporters
still pretty resilient here. Of course,
the big question is whether or not other
countries will begin to start cracking
down on these trans shipments uh going
forward, especially as part of their
trade deal with the United States.
>> Yeah, and it's a really tricky setup.
How do you even quantify or define these
trans shipments? Great to have you both
Bloomberg News Desk editor Jesus and our
China correspondent Min Lo. Now, we also
had data crossing the terminal
Philippines second quarter GDP and the
estimate was for a 1.3% expansion. We're
seeing it at 1 and a half%. This is on
the quarteronquarter basis. So, slightly
better than expected. If you're looking
at the exports numbers as well, uh they
rose 4.4%. Of course, this is all coming
against the backdrop of pretty tepid
consumption in the Philippines. We did
see that sort of play out in the
inflation numbers earlier in the week as
well. Still ahead on the China show,
India stocks and the currency set uh to
open in markets under pressure as
President Trump doubles the country's
tariff rate to 50%. A closer look at the
impact next. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Right. Welcome back. India on our mind.
So 25% tariffs that's gone up by double
50% according to the US president uh
over the same issue its purchases of
Russian oil. We know of course Indis
pushed back at that that it was part of
the commentary coming through yesterday
out of that RBI rate decision. So what
we've done is we we're taking a look at
number one the economic impact what the
you know domestic politics will be. The
other thing too is we've taken a massive
step back and really tried and figure
out really how much India is actually
buying in terms of Russian oil and
really help us break down all of that
for us right now. Let's bring in our
team. Our oil and shipping reporter Whan
Sun is in Singapore for us. And on the
economy side of things Swati Pandy also
joins us to talk us through the economic
impact here. Whan let me start with you.
You guys have crunched the numbers on
this. What do we know? What have you
found out here?
Um thank you David and and of course we
know that um India is a really big buyer
of Russian oil and this really became uh
a case a scenario that we've seen uh
since the G7 put in place a price cap on
the purchases of Russian oil. Um that
was at the end of um 2022 um when the EU
and the US were trying to uh force
Russia to end its war on Ukraine. And up
fast forward to today um in July we have
numbers showing that India is buying 1.6
um nearly 1.6 6 million barrels uh per
day of Russian oil um into shores and
and the makeup is about 37% of India's
um consumption of oil and and that's a
very big number that we're looking at.
Okay. Then what is the I want to say
what's the choice what's at stake for
India number one and I guess what's the
trade-off now that India needs to
consider given first its obviously
reliance on Russian crude and other
things it might have to take into
consideration here
>> exactly um so so what we have is
actually a secondary tariff that might
kick in later this month um on top of
the 25% so what the US essentially is
doing is trying to influence this
relationship that India has with Russia
for what the US thinks is helping
Russia's war in Ukraine and and just to
put it in in context. So India exports
around 88 billion dollar worth of
exports um into the US. So that will
come under a secondary tariffs. Um and
and what we have here at the same time
is India's huge consumption of Russian
oil. Um and and there on the screen you
can see that uh the state-run uh
refineries uh take up almost half of it
and also the private ones like Reliance
and Nara um are also big takers of
Russian oil and and there we have it is
that um India has been relying on um
cheaper Russian oil that's often sold at
a discount um to rent and WTI um crude
that's on the market and uh in in this
case we also can see that um the the
Reliance which actually has a long-term
deal with uh one of the Russian
producers um it will continue to take
Russian oil. So that's a big question um
in place uh that we have in in face of
the secondary sanctions that the US
tries to place on but taking one step
back today um as we can see um India is
a big taker of seaborn exports of uh
Moscow's uh oil exports. So, so this is
to say that the the logistics of uh
moving Russian oil to India can be
easily shifted. It's not like a pipeline
and India can easily turn to other
sources of crude. Um and we are coming
into a season where OPEC um that means
the Middle Eastern producers are
planning to ramp up um production of
oil. So, we're going to see more and
more uh barrels from other sources are
coming into the market. And at the same
time we have Russian um oil the discount
um to brand narrowing. So it's less
painful uh for India to turn to other
sources of oil. But but for for India
and what we're hearing from within um
the country itself it's it's causing a
lot of heartburn um a lot of pain for
them because they have been told um they
say um by the US and by the EU that it's
okay for them to buy um Russian oil. I
mean last year we have Treasury
officials telling New Delhi that um the
price cap mechanism is in place to allow
Russian oil to flow and to help India
take up cheaper crude. So now to have
the secondary sanctions uh terrorists uh
sorry um placed on them uh for buying of
Russian oil they they don't really
understand what's the what's the
situation over there and they're trying
to figure it out.
Yeah, a lot of people are uh Whan
Swatti, on that note, let me let me
bring you in with the economic overlay
here. How has India responded now to the
latest tariff announcement?
>> Um, so David, like William was saying
there there is a bit of bitterness in
the country. People are struggling to
figure out why they have got the
secondary sanctions when in the first
place. they were kind of encouraged to
use uh Russian oil to stabilize oil
prices uh and global supply. Uh so far
uh India is standing its ground. It's
continuing to buy from Russia and uh it
has called um the move by Donald Trump
uh as unfair, unjustified. it it's also
pointing to a little bit of hypocrisy by
European Union and United States both
who are also buying uh goods from
Russia. So there's there's definitely
that question mark around why is why is
India being targeted?
Well, well, the the threshold that
clearly right now Donald Trump is
pushing is now from 25 to 50. And is
that threshold 50% rate uh Swati I guess
enough uh to get India to cave? I guess
in in some ways
>> it is uh quite possible. Yes. Uh 50%
makes India really uncompetitive in the
export market uh especially with
countries that India competes with. So
let's say Vietnam or even China uh it
will impact the labor intensive sectors
really badly. So we are talking about
gems and jewelry, footwear, furniture,
uh apparel, garment uh those sectors are
going to be very badly impacted. Uh and
uh 50% tariff will also lead to probably
some demand shock, some supply shock.
It's kind of unclear at this stage uh
how big the impact will be. Uh some
economists have uh earlier had earlier
said um three percentage points uh if it
was 25% and now nobody is willing to put
a number on the actual impact that may
flow through. uh one uh point that I
have heard from uh my conversations with
economists or strategists is that uh
given that there is a 21day timeline uh
for the additional 25% it looks like a
negotiating tactic and not a policy. So
it is possible that that 25% is removed
especially if we see some good news on
uh Russia Ukraine ceasefire um and uh
then the 25% that remains will be uh
probably negotiated or it remains there
>> and this goes into I I guess the RBI
yesterday which I guess to be fair to
them we didn't know of course we were
going to be facing a double tariff today
but you know they did leave their policy
rates unchanged is that in some they
keeping their powder dry in case things
then worsen. Uh Swati,
>> yes. So the RBI also uh published
forecasts for inflation and economic
growth and they left their GDP forecast
at 6 and a half% unchanged. Um and that
was largely because of these
uncertainties. Um 25% was known. uh it
was known that there will be additional
tariff on u like a punishment for buying
Russian oil. How much extra was not
known. Uh and in spite of that knowledge
they left the economic forecast
unchanged at 6 and a half%. Uh the RBI
did signal that room for further easing
is uh uh limited. Uh which means the bar
is quite high. Uh so the economy has to
go through some real pain for the RBI to
come in and ease policy further. Uh
probably they will rely more on fiscal
uh stimulus or other measures that the
government government can take to
promote some of these labor intensive
industries that would be heavily
impacted from these tariffs.
>> Fantastic team. Thank you so much for
the time today Swati Pandy there on the
economy and of course the oil angle
which is really at the center of this
right now. Willinsson in Singapore for
us there on the currency just very
quickly here. So we're obviously looking
at this it's been under pressure that's
that's not a big surprise. Uh the level
you want to track is the high that we
hit back in Feb early Feb Feb 10 and
that level is 87 9563. If we get above
that of course that takes us into new
territory. Uh we did get a note coming
through yesterday out of MUFG I believe
is at an 88 is the level that the RBI
might come might come in and and
intervene right uh and we'll have more
on this in fact I'm very excited for
this one bottom of your screens that our
times on your screens uh a live Q&A
really on India that starts 8:30 p.m. if
you're watching or if you are based in
Hong Kong 1:30 p.m. London if you're in
the US that's 8:30 a.m. time details
there on your screens what it really
means as far as a broader conversation
goes between the two. Plenty more ahead.
This is the China show.
[Music]
Welcome back in some corporate news
we're tracking this morning. Earnings is
a key theme. Walt Disney will start
their shares down overnight after an
earnings beats was overshadowed by a
cautious fullear profit forecast. It now
sees earnings increasing 18% in fiscal
2025, slightly higher but short of Wall
Street hopes. CEO Bob Iger says Disney
will no longer report streaming
subscriber numbers, calling them less
meaningful. Disney also unveiled a $30
standalone ESPN app and a new bundle
with Hulu.
We are building on Disney's value
proposition in streaming by combining
Hulu into Disney Plus to create a
unified app experience featuring branded
and general entertainment, news, and
sports, resulting in a one-of-a-kind
entertainment destination for
subscribers.
McDonald's says sales picked up in the
most recent quarter, suggesting that the
recent pop culture focused
collaborations and budget meals are well
paying off. The global sales at
restaurants operating at least 13 months
uh same store sales effectively here up
3.8% beating Wall Street estimates. But
the company says it's seeing weakness in
its breakfast menu which it describes as
economically sensitive. Now Singapore's
biggest bank DBS reporting second
quarter profit beating expectations
really lifted by a jump in income from
trading and also wealth fees. The CEO
Tanushan Tanushan says nimble balance
sheet moves helped offset external
pressure. Meanwhile, you have UB also
coming out reporting second quarter
lower Tuki profits here short of
estimates as lending income declined.
Net profit dropped about 6%. Right,
staying on the well loosely on the
earnings theme because Xiaomi's
reporting in a couple of weeks.
Interesting though is we talked about
this first call coming out of Namora
cutting the spoon to neutral first
downgrade in several months but after
that that we've seen a series of brokers
have come out and said the opposite
right still bullish on the stock reason
this is important is the stock's
actually down quite substantially today
similar to the BYD conversation we had
yesterday charts coming up for the first
time going back to early April let's
call it late March we're not trading
below the 100 day moving average 51
right now in Sami plenty more ahead This
is the China show.
[Music]
Right, welcome back. Uh going into the
Japanese lunch break, we are in the
thick of earnings season there. um in a
couple of in fact I think at some point
in the next two hours Sony I think is
coming out and of course towards the
latter part of the day the likes of
Toyota are coming out will uh show you
really how much uh this is an earnings
team today uh all that said the the
market story is well news on tariffs
some really not as new uh markets are
running with it so far taking it in
stride and it seems the markets are
focused specifically when you look at
Japan Korea and Taiwan tech AI chip
heavy benchmarks are focusing on the
good things right so exemptions what
have you um as you can see 1 1% to the
upside in a couple of minutes we'll be
getting the uh 30-year bond auction over
Japan results there demand everything
else right tail yield bid to cover what
have you on your screens right now is
the curve from tense all the way down uh
to the 40-year yield so as you can see
we're down on the 10 so we are steeper
going into that uh auction
today. Couple of movers to tell you
about reported as of the close
yesterday. So, initial reaction is
coming in today and as you can see quite
substantial reaction on some of these
big names. About 120ish companies
reported yesterday on the topics index.
You add that to about the 250 that
reports today and you get a 24-hour
window where effectively you have about
a fifth at the topics index in terms of
the number, right? Not market cap, not
value, uh about a fifth of index
constituency. There we go. that's the
proper term. Um that are reporting
earnings as well with global
implications of course given of course
how some of the big names are coming
through as well. In fact, on that very
note, uh 15% is the 251 reporting on
Thursday and so big names on your
screens and there's a separate
conversation on I think there's a story
out on uh tariffs affecting the prices
of consoles, right? So Sony's going to
be part of that, SoftBank Group and of
course Toyota, which I think makes cars.
We're not sure. Okay. Later on, we'll be
speaking with NT data global chief
growth officer in North America CEO and
that's after the company reported it
operating income that missed for the
first quarter. Exclusive conver
conversation coming up on Insights with
has in the next hour. Okay, let's talk
about politics shall we? Uh you have top
prey negotiator uh Rio Asaga Akazawa has
met with US commerce secretary Howard
Lutnik urging swift implementation of
their deal to reduce tariffs on cars and
also auto parts. That comes after Prime
Minister Shigaro Ishiba uh admitting
getting a win-win outcome will be a
challenge. For more on this, let's bring
in our Japan politics and economics
reporter Sakura Murakami joining us from
Tokyo right now. Uh Sakura, thank you
for joining us. Well, what what has so
far come out from that visit? What were
the what were the wins that we could we
we can count so far, if any?
>> Uh well, I'm not so sure about the wins
just yet. Actually, um so far what we do
know is that um Akazawa met with Lutnik
as you said and he's urged Lutnik to
apply implement the tariffs, implement
the um agreement that um the US and
Japan have agreed on so far. What's
coming to light is that there are sight
slight discrepancies in the
understanding of the trade deal and that
includes one element which is uh whether
the tariffs that have been announced the
15% tariffs are actually stacked on top
of existing tariffs or not and this has
become of a bit of a a point of concern
in Japan because there have been reports
that US officials are saying that they
will be stacked whereas um Rio Akazawa
and Ishiba himself has also has said
that they won't be. So, this is a bit of
a a point of divergence that uh we'll be
keeping our eye on.
>> Oh, that's a very diplomatic way of
putting it. A point of divergence. Okay.
Uh well, speaking of, let's underscore
that point even further. What other
areas uh are the US and Japan still at
odds with each other when it comes to
the agreement?
So, um, yeah, beyond the whole stack,
whether the tariffs are stacked or not,
there's also the question of the, for
example, the $550 billion investment
plan that President Trump has touted as
um like a almost like a signing fee for
a baseball player for him. He said that
the US has complete control over how to
spend this money. But that's not really
the rhetoric that's coming out of Japan.
um Japan is saying 1 to 2% of that money
will be actual investments whereas the
remaining will probably be a mix of
loans and grants and um ultimately these
investments and these loans and grants
have to be in the um beneficial for
Japanese companies. It will be at the
best of Japanese companies. So there's a
uh point of difference there as well you
could say. Also the imple when the auto
tariffs will be in implemented is also a
very big uh point of concern for Japan.
Um currently the auto tariffs are 27.5%.
Um the so far we've heard that the
agreement is to lower this to 15% but
there's not been any clarity on when it
actually will be implemented. So, uh,
that's something that, um, Jose Akaza
will will be probably pressing his
counterparts, his US counterparts on
while he's in DC.
>> And how much time might this buy Ishiba
uh, in terms of being able to sell this
domestically and his longevity, of
course, as prime minister then?
>> Well, I it'll depend on how Akazawa like
how well his Akazawa's visit in DC goes.
Um at the moment um Ishiba is facing a
plenary meeting tomorrow um within the
LTP. Um he'll be trying to convince his
peers, the people in his party that he
has a mandate to stay on because he has
to see the US trade deal implemented. He
has to see it through. But there are
voices in the LDP calling for him to
step down. Uh that being said, there's
the broader public doesn't necessarily
see as the problem. They also see the
LDP as the problem as well. So, how long
he stays on is um still a bit up in the
air. Some people say, you know, maybe
the end of August, but um we'll we'll
see how the visit um Akazawa's visit in
DC plays out and also how the plenary
meeting tomorrow plays out as well.
>> Okay, stuff to watch. Sakura, thank you
so much. Sakura Murakami there in Tokyo
for us. Uh we're just going into about 5
minutes into the Tokyo lunch break. We
are going well we went into the lunch
break on fairly decent footing as far as
that's concerned. Uh slight decline
though as you can see about an hour into
the cash market session here in Hong
Kong and up in mainland China.
[Music]
The labor market has softened and you
can see this everywhere in the US
economy and here as well and I would see
additional slowing in the labor market
as an unwelcome sign. So all this means
as you put it together that I think
we'll likely need to adjust the policy
rate sometime in the coming months.
there were major revisions. So, two two
major revisions to to May and June. And
these revisions are somewhat typical of
turning points
>> which again uh speak to uncertainty. And
uh Susan is absolutely right. We want to
know not just where we've been but where
we're going. So if we're at an
inflection point, we want to look at
data for example that speak to
inflection points. And it's not always
uh payrolls. uh the unemployment rate is
still a good indicator of uh slack in
the system but we have to look at the
paniply of them and we have to keep a
close eye on these
>> in case you haven't noticed the tones
changed right and you know we're coming
off Mary Daly and of course Lisa Cook
separate events on the week US labor
markets data uh and then of course not
to mention the ISM of course this week
the services number now uh you have Neil
Kashkari here on your screens.
Effectively, what he's saying is it
might actually be time to adjust
interest rates. Traders have priced in
certainly as much ahead of the FMOC's
September meeting. So, just some dates
to watch, right? September. And this is
if you're in Asia, right? September 17.
That's that's the next meeting. After
that, it's not that it's related to it's
2 days before Halloween. Uh October 29.
And then the last meeting of the year is
December the 10th. And then next year is
January 28th. And you look at current
the reason I bring up four meetings is
because currently the pricing is three
cuts over the next four. So one is a
skip but that's a moving target
altogether. Market seems to be coalesing
around a September cut now as as base
case and I guess we can worry about
other things after that. Uh let's bring
in uh the Asia head of FX sales and
execution at UBP Ignatius Pong who might
be able to help us understand this even
further. Nice to see you. Good morning.
>> Thank you very much, David.
>> So, uh, four dates I mentioned there,
September, October, December, and
January. When do you think the first
one's going to be?
>> Well, I think, uh, we will get a clearer
indication as to when the next fed rate,
uh, cut will probably be in this
incoming, uh, Jackson Hole Symposium,
which is expected to be between the 21st
to the 23rd of August.
>> So, um, and the Fed has typically been,
uh, always airing on the side of
caution. So, I think they are very data
dependent as well. So of course the last
labor market reading was definitely uh
disastrous in a sense and with the
revisions in the previous few months as
well the market is starting to uh
>> anticipate that September is a very live
meeting as well
>> but uh however we still have two more
CPI readings uh into the next meeting
>> um that will also probably be very much
watched by the market and like you have
mentioned clearly it's a moving target
and it will be very much data dependent
but our base case is that we are
probably expecting one uh two rate cuts
this year but uh the first one probably
uh the last one will be in December and
the second one the first one in October
and the second in December as well.
>> Okay. So, we're down to 100 basis. Oh,
50 basis points. I'm sorry. 50 not not
two big ones.
>> Two big ones. You have a problem.
>> We don't want to be in a world where
we're getting two big ones
consecutively. Okay. At at what point
does the dollar start to move then on
interest rate differentials or is that
in other words what has been the biggest
move uh driver of the US dollar?
Sentiment flows positioning or is it
rate differentials at some point?
>> It's a combination of all actually at
this moment. um mispositioning like you
said and after the sell we have seen in
the US dollar since liberation day
itself we have seen a period of
consolidation in the US dollar and to
this current juncture I think the
interest rate profile of the US dollar
is starting to take forefront uh take
the forefront in driving FX markets as
well
>> um positioning wise uh the market is
starting to consolidate on that front
and uh if we were to recall back uh the
previous week when the dollar gained
2.2% 2% in just a matter of one week
itself is faster gain in 2022. This was
a clear indication that the market was
not was highly consensual in selling the
dollar but with not a very strong
conviction and the rebounds in the
dollar are possible as well.
>> So we are actually looking at this
opportunities to actually diversify out
of the US dollar doing sporadic bounces
in the US dollar itself.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> So so that bounce effectively you think
was just simply extreme repositioning.
It's uh well it's a consolidation after
extreme positioning like you said and
also as the market tries to juggle
between the interest rate uh break path
of the US of the Fed themselves as well.
This is also another determinant for the
US dollar in the short term.
>> Yeah. Now the do you see any before we
get into the sort of idiosyncratic
stories on I think you have the bank of
England you have what's happening in
Switzerland and them leaving without a
win India
>> I want to get a sense of when you look
on the horizon is there a catalyst that
you see even if it's a tail risk that
catalyzes the sustained rebound in the
US dollar
>> well a sustained rebound in the US
dollar will be a refulfillment of the
confidence in the US dollar after it was
uh lost in April itself So what that
would mean number one very healthy
fiscal balance in the US side of the
economy and then the fed actually uh
communicates effectively the number of
rate cuts that they are going to
undertake not only to the end of 2025
but also in the 2026. Now that's the
problem in 2026 we actually have uh J
power potentially stepping down as well
and being replaced there. So the market
will be probably pricing very
aggressively uh the number of rate cuts
in 2026 and that will be uh well a
driver for the dollar itself. M y and uh
as we go on uh into all the trade
negotiations that the US is starting to
ink in this in its favor that actually
has put the uh well the trade policy
part of the US uh dollar equation at the
side at the moment with the market
refocusing back on interest rate
differentials again
>> or the lack of deals that have been
inked and I think the reason I bring
that up is yeah Switzerland for example
dollar Swissy
>> dollar Swiss
>> yeah where do you see that going they
seem to have left without anything
>> yes that's right and I think as we speak
she's on the way back to Switzerland as
well without inking a deal now the 39
39% tariff is in place at the moment.
Uh, of course there's a lot of uh
analysis as to why the current surplus
is huge in Switzerland being blamed on
the their exportation of gold as well.
Now uh in terms of dollar Swiss uh I
would say that we will probably see a
consolidation in dollar Swiss above 80
cents. Uh with a risk of it gliding up
uh grinding up towards uh 82 in the
short term. Um, of course, uh, the Swiss
National Bank itself will probably want
to keep the Swiss on a looser footing or
on the weaker side, especially once, uh,
uh, especially in the absence of any,
uh, trade agreement with the US at the
moment.
>> What about cable?
>> Cable. Yeah.
>> Very exciting day today. We have the
Bank of England meeting.
>> Y, it's a cut, right?
>> It's a cut. 25 basis points fully priced
in.
>> Okay. Okay.
>> So, I guess uh, and again, the rhetoric
will be clearly watched into as to how
many rate cuts they'll be pricing it for
the rest of the year. So far, I think
the market's pricing in two rate cuts.
uh but of course that will be very
dependent on the data side as well. I
mean the UK has been facing uh a weak
labor market and also to the same extent
um they have a huge uh funding gap as
well which they are trying to restore
confidence in after what we had seen a
few years back as well.
>> So the rate cut is definitely priced in
at 25 basis points uh tonight uh but I
was I would probably have to uh examine
clearly as to what the rhetoric is
coming uh the rhetoric from the bank of
England themselves before actually uh
pricing the next rate cut from them as
well. Is is is the bank of England a
bigger driver for cable or is it these
fiscal concerns and the funding gap
that's seem to be every now and then
seems to be moving the dial the needle
on this.
>> Exactly. And that that is also one of
the reason we had seen cable actually
collapse to around 132 recently as well.
Um combination of factors the weak labor
market on on that front and also the uh
funding gap that the the UK is facing
has uh basically uh kept the risk very
much idiosyncratic on the on the side of
the cable. So um if any rebound in the
cable we will definitely be on the back
of the US dollar itself and not because
of uh any cable specific factors.
>> Okay. I think we're final question for
you. India is a big story today.
>> Yes.
>> Um we're looking at a Feb. So the Feb 10
high of 87 and change I think was the
record low and there was a comment
yesterday coming through I think out of
MUFJ
>> uh that 88 is the level at which they
might come in and defend it.
>> Yes. uh what are your expectations in
terms of well short-term moves in in
dollar India and what is a level that
you think authorities will come in to
intervene
>> well that's uh a little bit of a target
um well almost a key to HKMA itself and
well in a sense that uh 88 is a wrong
figure and that was exactly the high the
near the high we seen in uh the dollar
just a few weeks ago as well
>> now um if we look back at what the RBI
had mentioned yesterday as well um it
was clearly a case whereby they were
focused more on currency stability
rather than growth risk as well. And of
of course with the 50% tariff that was
put on them last night um there is a
risk that we might see dollar break
above 88 but we do not think that that
will be a very sustained move higher
because uh we will probably see well a
renegotiation going on again and that
will probably see a restore in
confidence and uh prevention of capital
outflows out of India.
>> Fantastic. Thank you so much. Nice to
see you. Let's let us know next time
you're back in town.
>> There we go. uh Ignatius Pong, Asia head
of FX sales and execution at at UBP.
Okay. Uh lots more to talk about. A
couple of big movers on your screens is
a quick glance at the FX complex right
now. Uh there's some big stock movers
here in the Asia Pacific, including Hong
Kong. You have Xiaomi, you have Cathy
Pacific, which I guess we can cross that
bridge in a couple of minutes. We're
back from a break. Plenty more ahead.
This is the China Show.
[Music]
Welcome back. Chips is a big story today
and as you can see TSMC up by 5% is
really all this benchmark needs with the
waiting that one has really on a
benchmark record highs there on TSMC.
That goes into the AMD part of the
conversation, chip tariffs, what have
you. You have shares of AMD gaining in
after hours trading in New York. Again,
same similar theme here. Investors
reacting to President Trump's plan for
100% tariffs uh on chip imports. Now,
earlier on, its earnings report also
offered little clarity uh on when AMD
might actually resume its sales of key
chips, AI chips specifically, uh to the
Chinese markets. CEO Lisa Sue uh told
Bloomberg that she is optimistic about a
prog about progress towards a
resolution.
I know people always want precision and
what I will give you is exactly um how
things um are playing out from our
standpoint. Um I think we've seen an
improvement over the last 90 days. You
know 90 days ago uh you know we did not
expect to believe to ship uh to be able
to ship to China because of some of the
regulations. I think the um this
administration um you know the
department of commerce the government
has actually been very open uh to uh
trying to find the right balance between
national security and ensuring that we
have AI US AI technologies uh
proliferated um across the world. So we
think that's a great balance. Uh we now
know that um we have a number of
licenses that are under review. uh we've
been given good indications that those
are moving through the review process
and you know we will um certainly inform
everyone when the licenses are granted
but given that it's hard to predict
exact timing just given all of the
things that are in front of the
government at the moment we thought the
right thing to do right now is just say
hey um let's not uh include that in the
third quarter revenue but even with that
we're growing 28% year-over-year which
is you know fantastic growth rate and if
you asked me you know what we've learned
in the last 90 days, we've learned that
the demand is even stronger in the
second half of the year than we
necessarily, you know, thought maybe
just a few months ago.
>> And analysts really cooperated and
thought it was right that we should see
such caution perhaps and not show up in
the numbers. But Lisa, I'm interested in
the inventory that you had been very
clear about the $800 million knock on
the fact that you couldn't access China
for a while. I know that most of those
manufacturing hadn't been complete, but
do you think you can unwind that 800
million? How much do you think can you
bring that back to bear?
>> Well, we certainly expect that um once
licenses are approved that we will you
know restart our supply chain and uh you
know get those in place. Um we do have
you know a bit of time that it takes to
complete those but we would expect to be
able uh you know to ship some of those
products as licenses are approved and
you know again the exact timing will
depend on when licenses um are approved.
But I again would hope that we don't get
caught up in you know something that I
would say is um moving um actually in
the right direction and really see like
the overall business is doing extremely
well.
>> There we go. though is the boss at AMD,
Lisa Sue with Caroline Hyde of course
our colleague there post earnings and
really as much clarity and context and
granularity
u that's possible uh without going into
speculation of course post what they can
do as far as the Chinese market is
concerned okay that was just me buying
15 seconds of the time okay uh pounds uh
and some of the crosses here you have
cable and everything in between bank of
England rate decision in a couple of
hours or so it's a consensus really uh
every single economist that we've
surveyed expects a cuts uh to about 4% I
believe uh is where we are on that. Uh
we did get a bounce off from the 132
handle on that. We're back above a key
moving average on cable. Um this note
just dropped in our inboxes right now.
This is on several markets along a
tariff conversation. Uh so UBS has
overrates on China, Brazil, not on your
screens, Indonesia, Malaysia and the
Philippines. Uh because these markets
are largely indifferent
according to UBS to tariff risks. We are
more worried they say we stick with
tariffs as an important market selection
theme for now. So among ems these are
including Brazil the top picks out of
UBS. Um nifty futures on your screens
India quite literally 50 is the number
of the day from 25 to 50 as far as the
tariff goes there. We'll see what the
impact's going to be as far as the
market goes. All indications are though
markets will be ignoring this. Cash
markets are set to open higher there.
We're coming off 24 hours from the RBI.
The other thing though is what the
currency is going to do, right? Because
we're trading at about 87 and change 87.
On the higher end of that takes us back
to Feb 10 levels, which is the level to
watch. So stay t stay tuned for that.
One stock we're tracking still today is
Cathy Pacific. Extending the 9 10% drop
yesterday, which really puts the stock
on track for one of its worst weeks ever
as a public company post earnings.
Couple of brokerages have downgraded the
stock. We're down about 3% going into
the last 60 minutes of trade where we
might actually get and probably will get
the trade numbers coming out of China.
July numbers preview on your screens and
yeah, we are expecting a contraction
there
uh an imports of about 1%. All things
equal trade balance 105 billion US.
That's it from us here on the China
show. We'll see you all tomorrow.
Chinese markets go on break in 20
minutes. Stay tuned though for more here
on Bloomer Television.
[Music]